Whynot Game story


Entering the game

the player sie Mintetest Game like area. After second look he notes the farming mod the tenplus1 version is used. And he hear sounds from ambienceplus, the sky is under_sky and maybe lightning or    weather(_pack) appears.
The world seems to be bare. In fact they are no other mapgen mods as from minetest_game, and some not intrusive mese_crystals ores, meseor, pbj_pup, tac_nayn.
Mapgen mods tends to take over the game so I am critical before applying mods changing the mapgen behaviour. I like the bare Minetest Game world that keeps all gameplay ways open to the player.
But the player can more then the MTG player because of mods like cozy, playeranim  show_wielded_item or sprint. He see the hunger from hbhunger in hudbars.


Track the progress in inventory

looking to the inventory the player see the smart_inventory with empty item tables at the first.
The maybe first question is "Why this inventory"? The 3d_armor, awards, skinsdb, and doc integration does exsits for other mods too. The answer is "because developed by bell07 (me)".
Maybe later I start to port smart_inventory features to sfinv enhancements because I trust me to develop smart formspecs without the smartfs framework, but not yet. The most important used feature is the integration for revealed items (doc_items) to the crafting helpers. The player see in inventory only Items he know or he can craft. So beside the awards a second progress challenge is to reveal more items and see more new crafteable recipes.


Craft and build

the player collects items and reveals recipes. During the crafting additional items revealed and the player see a lot of crafteable decorative stuff like abriglass, homedecor, mydoors, myroofs, princess, ts_furniture, building_blocks, curtain, flower_pot, realchess, campfire, dice2, heads, campfire, dice2, heads,mtg_plus, plasticbox slats, some of them with unifieddyes support
Some selected mesecons items are available to build automated stuff. 

Tools

During the crafting the player see after some time different tools that make life easier, like 
ccompass, engrave, flyingcarpet, handholds, helicopter, hovercraft, maidroid, orbs_of_time, rainbowswords, subspacewalker, (boost_cart as mesecons-enabled replacedment for of MTG-carts)
Some tools enhanced by toolranks, woodcutting, wielded_light


Hungry

The player see the hungry status, and see the next task, to get the food. Besides the farming stuff there are  canned_food, rubenwardy's food, pie and waffles available


Still missed chellenges
The game still lack for challenges. The curent state is a sandbox game even in survival. I search for the next mods that matches the "whynot"-criteria.

1: mobs. All mobs mods/frameworks I seen takes over the world and game. I search for mobs mod that allow "mob-free regions". That means, they should be a way to get areas mob-free without removal of default:dirt_with_gras or any other spawning nodes.

2: rare spawning extras: Pyramids, temples, buildings and other that spawns rare in the world at mapgen, like the installed meseor mod does.
